## _Journal Review by Jeff Milewski_

### *‘Positive words carry less information than negative words’, by David Garcia, Antonio Garas, and Frank Schweitzer*

### _Objective:_
The objective of the study was to confirm previous studies and improve upon them by determining whether negative words carry more information than positive words. Since this paper focused on the emotion expressed in a word, the problem analyzed involved determining how best to quantify emotion in language. The valence term was used to express the value of emotional content and a relationship with a word’s information content was calculated, determining that a word’s valence is negatively correlated to its information content. 

### _Methodology:_
The study’s methodology included calculations and data sets from past studies. The Google Ngram provided the researches with a data set to determine word usage and context on the Internet. Online written communication was used for the study, specifically English, German, and Spanish. To take into account the bias between positive and negative expressions, the paper used two analyses: quantifying emotional content in terms of valence and quantifying word usage frequency of the entire indexable Web. Between valence and information content, the authors calculated negative correlations among the three languages. Further calculations were performed involving context size and information content. 

### _Conclusion:_
The paper furthered our understanding of word sentiment by showing that a word’s information content is related to its emotional content. This relationship adds to the knowledge of previous studies, specifically the ones that link word usage frequency with emotional content. When looking at the absolute values of the correlation coefficients, the relationship between information content and valence is the stronger relationship. A negative correlation exists within this relationship, and therefore, the authors deduce that there exists a larger self-information bias for negative words. Additional support for their analysis included showing that word length increases with self-information and that word frequency is additionally related to the positive or negative emotion expressed by the word. 

The study was particularly useful in detecting additional evidence in support of the Pollyanna hypothesis, furthering the idea that word frequency is related to the emotional content of the word. Linking valence to both the information content and frequency provides a more comprehensive understanding of how written language is used, giving us an additional angle for predictability analysis. The comprehensiveness of the study was also good, for they performed analyses that examined, and ultimately supported, their own assumptions based on previous studies. The authors’ creativity was also apparent, especially in their use of available resources on the web. Related to this, their methodology made sure to ensure that the data was relatable to written human language on the whole, by performing similar calculations on formal written texts. I feel I learned a lot from their comprehensive approach to ensuring an airtight argument within the context of using certain types of data sets for regression analysis.